# CS-360-Mobile-Architecture-And-Programming
Repository for my SNHU CS-360: Mobile Architecture and Programming final project
# Portfolio Reflection
The app I chose to make is an inventory tracking app. The requirements of which were that it needed to have a login screen, sign up screen, an inventory screen, two databases, and a way of notifying the user by SMS if an item reaches a quantity of zero. The goal of the project was to create an app that tracks the accounts in one database and items added in the second. It would keep track of all the items, allow the user to add, edit, or delete items, and alert the user by SMS when one of the items reached a quantity of zero. The screens I considered necessary for the user experience were a login screen, a sign up screen, an inventory screen, an item addition screen, and an item details screen. I kept the user in mind by making sure all the screens were simple and intuitive to navigate so that the app minimized the amount of learning the user would need to use it. My designs were successful because they made intuitiveness the first priority, which is the most important factor when designing a UI. When I was coding my app, I approached it chronologically to the typical user experience. I first coded the databases and the login and sign up pages. After that , I tackled the inventory screen and item addition, finally ending with the details screen and SMS notification. That way I could ensure that I covered everything for the requirements, while also making sure the user experience flowed nicely. The strategy I used was to design the UI of the app first and then handle the coding. I could make sure the UI stayed nice and simple without complicating it with unnecessary additions. This could be applied in the future easily by using diagrams when the project doesn't offer the option of designing the UI with XML separately from the rest of the code. The way I tested the app was with an emulated Android device, specifically a Google Pixel 3a XL running Android 10.0. The process showed me quite a bit about the errors and bugs in my code. The Logcat window in Android Studio was extremely helpful when I needed to find the cause of the errors. This emulation step is incredibly important because it can give the developer much needed insight into how the app behaves while it's actively being used, as opposed to simply using JUnit tests. When designing and developing the app, there were a couple of places that I definitely had to innovate. The first place is when I was coding the inventory list fragment. I used a RecyclerView to display the list of inventory items and I needed a way to listen to the buttons I'd included in the list element so that the user could increment, decrement, or delete an item without needing to open the details page. I needed to include the button listeners in the ItemHolder class so that they were included with the general item listener. The second place I really had to innovate was when I was coding the SMS notifications.
